Amnesty International has said the world
is seeing a near breakdown of
international law it cites multiple
conflicts and the rise of artificial
intelligence as the main threats the
annual report on human rights singles
out Israel and its allies for quote
multiple violations committed in Gaza It
also says China and Russia are
demonstrating a willingness to destroy
the rules-based order the organization
said there has been a betrayal of Human
Rights principles by today's leaders and
institutions amesty International
Secretary General condemned what she
called the collective punishment of
Palestinians in
Gaza the level of violation that we have
monitored is unprecedented we have
certainly seen that in in Gaza over the
last 6 months with an extraordinary
number of victims within the civilian
population with the use of famine as a
weapon of war with Collective punishment
imposed on Palestinians the largest
number of journalists killed the largest
number of humanitarian actors killed u a
very unprecedented harm to civilians
ever recorded So these violations are
not only um extremely serious they are
also Justified so Israel is
justifying uh all of those violations
and the United States until very
recently has done the same
well for more on this I'm joined Now by
our special correspondent AIA Ibrahim a
amnesty's report puts a spotlight on
Israel's war in Gaza it also draws
attention to the October 7th terrorist
attacks by Hamas on Israel that
triggered the war uh amnesty is again
urging the international criminal court
to take on and investigate alleged human
rights violations is all this likely to
have any impact or there likely to be
consequences of this well that's exactly
the point of this report right is that
in the face of all of these violations
or alleged violations there haven't
really been consequences and certainly
the report highlights um the situation
in in Gaza Israel's war in Gaza uh but
also it talks about Ukraine and uh China
and other uh world uh powers and what
the report says is that because there
have not been consequences we're risking
the collapse of the post 1948 world uh
order uh the the values that had been
declared Universal back then and the
belief that they work for everybody and
that they work for everybody equally
that's what's at stake in addition of
course to the lives and livelihoods of
the thousands if not millions of
Innocents whose uh rights are being
violated every day without consequences
according to the report I looked at uh
the report just the top of it and it
suggests that the world is indeed
regressing in terms of human right
rights uh in the world um just want a
quick question about Germany it's also
uh singled out in this report what why
is it criticized well Germany is one of
the most um is the staunchest if not the
strongest Ally and supporter of Israel
uh in uh this War and what the German
government we should specify that this
is the German government's position uh
historically has been is that the
Germany has a special responsibility
towards the Jewish people because of the
crimes of the Holocaust and that that
translates into support for the state of
uh uh of Israel and Germany which had
you forged an image of itself post
second world war as a country that
upholds human rights is now being
accused of double standards of not being
harsh enough and critical enough uh
towards its Ally Israel as it commits
human rights violations in in Gaza and
we've seen German leaders visit Israel
the United St American leaders have done
the same declare time and time again
their support uh for uh Israel and the
war despite there being some very
serious allegations of war crimes and an
alleged genocide uh uh being accused uh
Israel is now being accused of an
alleged genocide as well and German
support has been pretty strong
throughout this is a big report it
covers 155 countries what are your main
takeaways so of course course there's
the you know there's that overarching
theme that uh Powers not just the United
States but also Russia because of the
war in Ukraine and China uh BEC because
of the violations against Wagers in
shinjang that these three uh Powers
because of their veto uh Power in the in
the UN Security Council they're the ones
that are sort of accelerating this
descent towards a world where Universal
human rights seem to be uh uh uh
meaningless and it's really um almost
invites a rethinking of that world order
and whether or not these three
superpowers should have as much power as
they do to really dictate uh you know
accountability questions of
accountability so the report looks at
Major Powers it looks at individual
conflicts but it also looks at
developments in terms of Technology uh
it talks a lot about artificial
intelligence what does it say about that
well the report definitely points the
finger to Big Tech uh the lack of
regulation for artificial intelligence
and the way that technology could be
abused to accelerate uh uh violations of
human rights on one hand it says we are
regressing we're going back to a a
pre-1948 world at the same time we're
sort of also racing towards this future
with AI and with the rise of this new
technology but so far that is not been
uh uh regulated so it's a weird time
warp we seem to be finding ourselves in
yeah thank you very much uh that was our
special correspondent AA
Ibrahim now in the weeks following the
Hamas terror attack on October the 7th
last year Israeli authorities cracked
down on protests that criticized
Israel's milit military response while
over 100 Palestinian citizens of Israel
were arrested for participating in
protests or posting on social media DW
special correspondent armian ISF met up
with the human rights lawyer Ahmed
Khalifa a Palestinian citizen of Israel
who was himself arrested at a protest
and charged with incitement to
terrorism in a small apartment in hia
lawyer and activist Ahmad Khalifa is
under house arrest after spending 114
days in prison it's an improvement but
Khalifa says he's still essentially a
prisoner that's the uncle bracelet you
can see it exactly so if he steps
outside the apartment with this
electronic tag the police will be
alerted they'll call him on this
communication device and if he doesn't
answer he could be held in violation and
sent back to
prison the worst part for Khalifa is
that the court ordered him to rent an
apartment outside of his hometown where
his children live and go to school they
can only come to visit on school
holidays like
today the only thing that we did is
going in a de
demonstration try to support the people
of Gaza that uh were under 12 uh days of
heavy bombing
on October 19th last year Khalifa helped
lead a protest in the Israeli town of um
alfam where he's from they chanted
slogans in support of Gaza he says not
Hamas a video from that day shows him
urging the crowd to remain civil
[Music]
soon after it began heavily armed police
intervened and started arresting
people Khalifa was one of those
arrested they wanted to teach the other
people a lesson by us that's why our
arrest was so so cruel Khalifa was
charged with incitement to terrorism and
spent 3 and a half months in megiddo and
gilboa prisons where he alleges he was
deprived of sleep and food and was
beaten by guards as a lawyer who has
defended Palestinian Prisoners the
experience was
eye-opening I used to think that when
they say physical
torture the people exag exaggerate
because they want to get out from jail
you
know but uh the stuff that we we saw
there is amazing like it's real Horrors
Khalifa claims that in the weeks after
the October 7th Hamas Terror attacks
Israel's justice system abandoned the
rule of law it's like if you're not with
us you're against
us that that's the thing and they said
it to me clearly in my investigations
and it it's thing that make you think
again about everything that you learned
about the whole law system you you know
in one night the there was no law no
police no authorities and everything
changed I put Khalifa's claims to
Israeli authorities the Israel prison
service sent me this response we are not
aware of the claims you described
nonetheless prisoners and detainees have
the right to file a complaint that will
be fully examined and addressed by
official authorities the Israel police
wrote the individual in question
participated in an unauthorized Marge
characterized by incitement where he
assumed a leadership role the Israel
police will continue working diligently
to protect our citizens and will not
tolerate individuals endangering Public
Safety through incitement to violence or
support of
Terror Khalifa is hopeful that the
Israeli courts will acquit him once
legal proceedings wrap up his life will
eventually return to normal he says but
his faith in the justice system has been
shaken to the
core and our special correspondent Arman
ISF who fil that report joins me now in
the studio hi armian um tell us what is
the state's case against Khalifa well
he's been charged with incitement to
terrorism and identification with a
terrorist group this goes back to the
chants that were um chanted at the
protest that he helped organized uh one
of them that he mentioned was Gaza will
that translates roughly to Gaza will not
be conquered from video we are able to
hear another chant which was um there's
only one thing to do push out the
occupiers now both of these are being
interpreted by the state as being pro
Hamas Gaza will but not be conquered and
being anti basically calling for um the
expulsion of Jews from Israel uh so push
out the occupiers but of course he
himself is a lawyer um he's been to
protest before he he said that he and
the other organizers sat down and came
up with chance that they believed would
not get them in trouble because
everybody was afraid that they would get
in trouble and he assured the protesters
that they would be safe if they chanted
these chance and in the end he was
arrested and uh sent to prison so
Amnesty International El alleges that
there has been a Crackdown on any
criticism of the um Israeli state with
all of the research you've done the
people you've spoken to does your
research back this up it seems to have
been a period in October and November
when there was a zero tolerance policy
uh for any kind of
anti-israel um protest now don't forget
that the anti- uh government protest
have been tolerated that's against
Netanyahu and his government but
anything that's perceived as being
anti-state or anti-military anti-
operation in Gaza there was a major
Crackdown on this in October and
November um the state itself said the
official figures that 140 indictments
were put out against people for protests
or social media posts adala which is a
Human Rights group said that they
counted 270 indictments arrests or
warning talks 95% of these were
Palestinian citizens of Israel so not
Jewish Israelis but Palestinian citizens
of Israel uh we did I met with one uh
Jew Israeli um mayor Baran who was
arrested and he was spent four days in
prison but he himself said that the
Palestinian citizens have it worse um
most were for social media posts um and
in every case I've seen it was for
instances of speech or protests that
could be interpreted as being against
the state or against the military but uh
something that in Germany or the US uh
would not have been punished with prison
time anyway okay and what is the legal
basis for this Crackdown the legal basis
is a 2016 counterterrorism law but of
course the enforcement of that law uh a
lot of human rights groups say has been
political uh in ahmad's case um also
mayor buan the Jewish Israeli they said
that it was because there was local
authorities far right or who had a
grievance against them and were using
this time in October to settle a score
Ahad uh Khalifa is an activist and he
did a lot of work about police violence
so the police didn't really like him and
he thought they were settling a score
with him we weren't be able to ver we
couldn't verify that but another thing
that human rights groups are saying is
that um this goes back to the national
security minister itamar benav who is
one of the most far-right members of uh
the uh government in Israel and he is in
charge of law enforcement he's in charge
of the Israel prisons and in charge of
the police and they say that his
influence has had a chilling effect on
Free Speech because of the way that the
police and the prisons are able to
enforce these things now don't forget
the uh the um Supreme Court has thrown
out a lot of these cases but the
chilling effect is still there when you
get thrown in prison even if you're not
uh convicted anything amen thank you so
much that's DW's special correspondent
armian EF